\documentclass{article}
\usepackage{neurips_data_2021}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\usepackage[capitalize]{cleveref}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\newcommand{\tbo}[1]{\textcolor{teal}{/* TBo: #1 */}}
\title{The CPD Data Set: Personnel, Use of Force, and Complaints in the Chicago Police Department}

\begin{document}


\maketitle

\begin{abstract}
The lack of accessibility to data on policing has severely limited researchersâ€™
ability to conduct thorough quantitative analyses on police activity and
behavior, particularly with regard to predicting police violence. In the
present work, we provide a new dataset that contains information on the
personnel, activities, use of force, and complaints in the Chicago Police
Department (CPD) until 2017. The raw data, obtained from the CPD via a series
of requests under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), comprise 35 unlinked,
inconsistent, and undocumented spreadsheets. Our paper provides a cleaned,
linked, and documented version of this data that can be reproducibly generated
via open source code. We provide a detailed description of the dataset
contents, the procedures for cleaning the data, and summary statistics. The
data have a rich variety of uses, such as prediction (e.g., predicting
misconduct from officer traits, experience, and assigned units), network
analysis (e.g., detecting communities within the social network of officers
co-listed on complaints), spatiotemporal data analysis (e.g., investigating
patterns of officer shooting events), causal inference (e.g., tracking the
effects of new disciplinary practices, new training techniques, and new
oversight on complaints and use of force), and much more. Because data on
police behavior is extremely limited, we believe that direct, open-source
access to this dataset is an important step to help the machine learning
community engage with the problem of police violence.
\end{abstract}

\input{sections/intro}

\input{sections/data}

\input{sections/analysis}

\input{sections/discussion}

\input{sections/data_prev}

\end{document}
